
FADE IN:

EXT.  PARK - DAY

Brief shot of duel.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	My father, who was well-known to the
	best circles in this kingdom under
	the name of roaring Harry James, was
	killed in a duel, when I was fifteen
	years old.

EXT.  GARDEN - DAY

Mrs. James, talking with a suitor; Roderick, at a
distance.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	My mother, after her husband's
	death, and her retirement, lived in
	such a way as to defy slander.  She
	refused all offers of marriage,
	declaring that she lived now for her
	son only, and for the memory of her
	departed saint.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Mother and son walking together.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	My mother was the most beautiful
	women of her day.  But if she was
	proud of her beauty, to do her
	justice, she was still more proud of
	her son, and has said a thousand
	times to me that I was the
	handsomest fellow in the world.

EXT.  CHURCH - DAY

Mother and son entering church.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	The good soul's pleasure was to
	dress me; and on Sundays and
	Holidays, I turned out in a velvet
	coat with a silver-hilted sword by
	my side, and a gold garter at my
	knee as fine as any lord in the
	land.  As we walked to church on
	Sundays, even the most envious souls
	would allow that there was not a
	prettier pair in the kingdom.

EXT.  FIELD - DAY

A picnic.  The Dugan family.  Roderick.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	My uncle's family consisted of ten
	children, and one of them was the
	cause of all my early troubles; this
	was the belle of the family, my
	cousin, Miss Dorothy Dugan, by name.

EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY

A sprawling run-down Irish manor house with large garden,
stables, barn and farm.

Idealized images of Dorothy.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Ah!  That first affair, how well one
	remembers it!  What a noble
	discovery it is that the boy makes
	when he finds himself actually and
	truly in love with some one!  A lady
	who is skilled in dancing or singing
	never can perfect herself without a
	deal of study in private.  So it is
	with the dear creatures who are
	skilled in coquetting.  Dorothy, for
	instance, was always practicing, and
	she would take poor me to rehearse
	her accomplishments upon...

Dorothy talking with the exciseman.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	... or the exciseman, when he came
	his rounds.

Dorothy talking to the steward.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	... or the steward.

Dorothy sitting under a tree with the curate, reading a
book.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	... or the poor curate.

Dorothy talking to the apothecary's lad.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	... or the young apothecary's lad
	from Dugan's Town whom I recollect
	beating once for that very reason.

Roderick, fighting with apothecary's lad.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	The torments of jealousy she made me
	endure were horrible.

EXT.  FIELD - DAY

Dorothy, like a greyhound released from days of
confinement, and given the freedom of the fields at last,
runs at top-speed, left and right, back and forth,
returning every moment to Roderick.

She runs and runs until she is out of breath, and then
laughs at the astonishment which keeps Roderick motionless
and staring at her.

After catching her breath, and wiping her forehead, she
challenges Roderick to a race.

			RODERICK
	I accept, but I insist on a wager.
	The loser must do whatever the
	winner pleases.

			DOROTHY
	Agreed.

			RODERICK
	Do you see the gate at the end of
	the field?  The first to touch it
	will be the winner.

They line up together and start on a count of three.
Dorothy uses all her strength, but Roderick holds back,
and Dorothy touches the gate five or six paces ahead of
him.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I was certain to win, but I meant to
	lose to see what she would order me
	to do.

Dorothy catches her breath, thinking of the penalty.  Then
she goes behind the trees and, a few second later, comes
out and says:

			DOROTHY
	Your penalty is to find a cherry-
	colored ribbon which I have hidden
	somewhere on my person.  You are
	free to look for it anywhere you
	will, and I will think very little
	of you if you do not find it.

They sit down on the grass.  Roderick searches her
pockets, the fold of her short bodice and her skirt, then
her shoes; then he turns up her skirt, slowly and
circumspectly, as high as her garters, which she wears
upon the knee.  He unfastens them and finds nothing; he
draws down her skirt and gropes under her armpits.  The
tickling makes her laugh.

			RODERICK
	I feel the ribbon.

			DOROTHY
	Then you must get it.

Roderick has to unlace her bodice and touch her pretty
breasts, over which his hand must pass to reach it.

			DOROTHY
	Why are you shaking?

			RODERICK
	With pleasure at finding the ribbon.

EXT.  FIELD - DAY

Military review.  One hundred English troops, a few
mounted officers, a small military band, fifty local
people.

The Dugan family, Roderick and his mother, Captains Best
and Grogan.

Roderick admires the troops in their splendid uniforms.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	About this time, the United Kingdom
	was in a state of great excitement
	from the threat generally credited
	of a French invasion.  The noblemen
	and people of condition in that and
	all other parts of the kingdom
	showed their loyalty by raising
	regiments of horse and foot to
	resist the invaders.  How I envied
	them.  The whole country was alive
	with war's alarums; the three
	kingdoms ringing with military
	music, while poor I was obliged to
	stay at home in my fustian jacket
	and sigh for fame in secret.

INT.  BALLROOM AT FENCIBLES - NIGHT

Dorothy and Roderick entering.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Once, the officers of the Kilwangen
	regiment gave a grand ball to which
	Dorothy persuaded my to take her.

Several cuts depicting the evening.

Dorothy ignores Roderick; dances, chats, laughs, drinks
punch, and finally, strolls outside with Captain Best.

Roderick makes a half-hearted try at dancing with Miss
Clancy.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I have endured torments in my life,
	but none like that.  Some of the
	prettiest girls there offered to
	console me, for I was the best
	dancer in the room, but I was too
	wretched, and so remained alone all
	night in a state of agony.  I did
	not care for drink, or know the
	dreadful comfort of it in those
	days; but I thought of killing
	myself and Dorothy, and most
	certainly of making away with
	Captain Best.

EXT.  FENCIBLES BALLROOM - DAWN

The guests leaving and saying their goodbyes.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	At last, and at morning, the ball
	was over.

EXT.  ROAD - DAWN

Dorothy and Roderick on horseback together.

			DOROTHY
	Sure it's a bitter night, Roderick
	dear, and you'll catch cold without
	a handkerchief to your neck.

To this sympathetic remark, from the pillion, the saddle
made no reply.

			DOROTHY
	Did you and Miss Clancy have a
	pleasant evening, Roderick?  You
	were together, I saw, all night.

To this, the saddle only replies by grinding his teeth,
and giving a lash to Daisy.

			DOROTHY
	Oh!  Mercy, you make Daisy rear and
	throw me, you careless creature,
	you.

The pillion had by this got her arm around the saddle's
waist, and gave it the gentlest squeeze in the world.

			RODERICK
	I hate Miss Clancy, you know I do!
	And I only danced with her because
	-- because -- the person with whom I
	intended to dance chose to be
	engaged the whole night.

			DOROTHY
	I had not been in the room five
	minutes before I was engaged for
	every single set.

			RODERICK
	Were you obliged to dance five times
	with Captain Best, and then stroll
	out with him into the garden?

			DOROTHY
	I don't care a fig for Captain Best;
	he dances prettily to be sure, and
	is a pleasant rattle of a man.  He
	looks well in his regimentals, too;
	and if he chose to ask me to dance,
	how could I refuse him?

			RODERICK
	But you refused me, Dorothy.

			DOROTHY
	Oh!  I can dance with you any day,
	and to dance with your own cousin at
	a ball as if you could find no other
	partner.  Besides, Roderick, Captain
	Best's a man, and you are only a
	boy, and you haven't a guinea in the
	world.

			RODERICK
	If ever I meet him again, you shall
	see which is the best man of the
	two.  I'll fight him with sword or
	with pistol, captain as he is.

			DOROTHY
	But Captain Best is already known as
	a valiant soldier, and is famous as
	a man of fashion in London.  It is
	mighty well of you to fight farmers'
	boys, but to fight an Englishman is
	a very different matter.

Roderick falls silent.

EXT.  SMALL BRIDGE OVER A STREAM - DAWN

They come to an old, high bridge, over a stream,
sufficiently deep and rocky.

			DOROTHY
	Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are
	such a hero, was passing over the
	bridge and the enemy on the other
	side.

			RODERICK
	I'd draw my sword, and cut my way
	through them.

			DOROTHY
	What, with me on the pillion?  Would
	you kill poor me?

			RODERICK
	Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd
	do.  I'd jump Daisy into the river,
	and swim you both across, where no
	enemy could follow us.

			DOROTHY
	Jump twenty feet!  You wouldn't dare
	to do any such thing on Daisy.
	There's the captain's horse, Black
	George, I've heard say that Captain
	Bes --

She never finished the word for, maddened by the continual
recurrence of that odious monosyllable, Roderick shouts:

			RODERICK
	Hold tight to my waist!

And, giving Daisy the spur, springs with Dorothy over the
parapet, into the deeper water below.

The horse's head sinks under, the girl screams as she
sinks, and screams as she rises.

Roderick lands her, half-fainting, on the shore.

INT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Various cuts showing illness and convalescence.

Roderick feverish:  the doctor taking his pulse.

Mother brings a tray of food.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I went home, and was ill speedily of
	a fever, which kept me to my bed for
	a week.

Dorothy visiting him.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Dorothy visited me only once, but I
	quitted my couch still more
	violently in love than I had been
	ever before.

EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY

The air is fresh and bright, and the birds sing loud
amidst the green trees.  Roderick is elated, and springs
down the road, as brisk as a young fawn.

He encounters an orderly whistling "Roast Beef of Old
England," as he cleans down a cavalry horse.

			RODERICK
	Whose horse, fellow, is that?

			ORDERLY
	Feller, indeed!  The horse belongs
	to my captain, and he's a better
	fellow nor you any day.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I did not stop to break his bones,
	as I would on another occasion, for
	a horrible suspicion had come across
	me, and I made for the garden as
	quickly as I could.

Roderick see Captain Best and Dorothy pacing the path
together.  Her arm is under his, and he is fondling and
squeezing her little hand which lies closely nestling
against his arm.

Some distance beyond them is Captain Grogan, who is paying
court to Dorothy's sister, Mysie.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	The fact is that, during the week of
	my illness, no other than Captain
	Best was staying at Castle Dugan,
	and making love to Miss Dorothy in
	form.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	No, Dorothy, except for you and four
	others, I vow before all the gods,
	my heart had never felt the soft
	flame.

			DOROTHY
	Ah, you men, you men, John, your
	passion is not equal to ours.  We
	are like -- like some plant I've
	read of -- we bear but one flower,
	and then we die!

			CAPTAIN BEST
	Do you mean you never felt an
	inclination for another?

			DOROTHY
	Never, my John, but for thee!  How
	can you ask me such a question?

Raising her hand to his lips.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	Darling Dorothea!

Roderick rushes into view, drawing his little sword.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I pulled out a knot of cherry-
	colored ribbons, which she had given
	me out of her breast, and which
	somehow I always wore upon me, and
	flung them in Captain Best's face,
	and rushed out with my little sword
	drawn.

			RODERICK
	She's a liar -- she's a liar,
	Captain Best!  Draw, sir, and defend
	yourself, if you are a man!

Roderick leaps at Captain Best, and collars him, while
Dorothy makes the air echo with her screams.

Captain Grogan and Mysie hasten up.

Though Roderick is a full growth of six feet, he is small
by the side of the enormous English captain.

Best turns very red at the attack upon him, and slips back
clutching at his sword.

Dorothy, in an agony of terror, flings herself round him,
screaming:

			DOROTHY
	Captain Best, for Heaven's sake,
	spare the child -- he is but an
	infant.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	And ought to be whipped for his
	impudence, but never fear, Miss
	Dugan, I shall not touch him, your
	favorite is safe from me.

So saying, he stoops down and picks up the bunch of
ribbons, which Roderick had flung at Dorothy's feet, and
handing it to her, says in a sarcastic tone:

			CAPTAIN BEST
	When ladies make presents to
	gentlemen, it is time for other
	gentlemen to retire...

			DOROTHY
	Good heavens, Best!  He is but a boy
	and don't signify any more than my
	parrot or lap-dog.  Mayn't I give a
	bit of ribbon to my own cousin?

			RODERICK
		   (roaring)
	I'm a man, and will prove it.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	You are perfectly welcome, miss, as
	many yards as you like.

			DOROTHY
	Monster!  Your father was a tailor,
	and you are always thinking of the
	shop.  But I'll have my revenge, I
	will!  Roddy, will you see me
	insulted?

			RODERICK
	Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to
	have his blood as sure as my name's
	Roderick.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	I'll send for the usher to cane you,
	little boy, but as for you, miss, I
	have the honor to wish you a good
	day.

Best takes off his hat with much ceremony, and makes a low
bow, and is just walking off, when Michael, Roderick's
cousin, comes up, whose ear has likewise been caught by
the scream.

			MICHAEL
	Hoity-toity!  John Best, what's the
	matter here?

			CAPTAIN BEST
	I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Dugan.
	I have had enough of Miss Dugan here
	and your Irish ways.  I ain't used
	to 'em, sir.

			MICHAEL
		   (good-humoredly)
	Well, well!  What is it?  We'll make
	you used to our ways, or adopt
	English ones.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	It's not the English way, for ladies
	to have two lovers, and, so, Mr.
	Dugan, I'll thank you to pay me the
	sum you owe me, and I resign all
	claims to this young lady.  If she
	has a fancy for school-boys, let her
	take 'em, sir.

			MICHAEL
	Pooh!  Pooh!  Best, you are joking.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	I never was more in earnest.

Best exits.

			MICHAEL
		   (in a towering rage)
	You -- you!  Hang you for a meddling
	brat, your hand is in everybody's
	pie.  What business had you to come
	brawling and quarreling here, with
	a gentleman who has fifteen hundred
	a-year?

Michael runs after Best.

			DOROTHY
		   (gasps)
	Oh, I shall die; I know I shall.  I
	shall never leave this spot.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
		   (whisper to Dorothy)
	The Captain is gone.

Dorothy, giving him an indignant look, jumps up and walks
towards the house.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
		   (in a soothing tone
		    to Roderick)
	This is a pretty way to recommend
	yourself to the family.

			RODERICK
		   (shouts after
		    Michael)
	The man that marries Dorothy Dugan
	must first kill me -- do you mind
	that?

			MICHAEL
		   (shouting back from
		    a distance)
	Pooh, sir.  Kill you -- flog you,
	you mean!  I'll send for Nick the
	huntsman to do it.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	You are a gallant lad, and I like
	your spirit.  But what Dugan says is
	true.  It's a hard thing to give a
	lad counsel who is in such a far-
	gone state as you; but, believe me,
	I know the world, and if you will
	but follow my advice, you won't
	regret having taken it.  Dorothy
	Dugan has not a penny; you are not a
	whit richer.  And, my poor boy,
	don't you see -- though it's a hard
	matter to see -- that she's a flirt,
	and does not care a pin for you or
	Best either?

			RODERICK
	Dorothy might love me or not, as she
	likes, but Best will have to fight
	me before he marries her!

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Faith, I think you are a lad that's
	likely to keep your word.

He looks hard at Roderick for a second to two, then he
walks away, humming a tune, looking back at Roderick as he
goes through the old gate out of the garden.

When Grogan is gone, Roderick is quite alone, and he
flings himself down on the bench where Dorothy had made
believe to faint, and had left her handkerchief and the
ribbons and, taking them up, hides his face in them, and
bursts into a passion of tears.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I must have sat for some hours
	bemoaning myself on the garden-bench,
	for the dinner-bell clanged as usual
	at three o'clock, which wakened me
	from my reverie.

EXT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DAY

As Roderick passes the courtyard, he sees the Captain's
saddle still hanging up at the stable-door, and his odious
red-coated brute of a servant, swaggering with the
scullion-girls and kitchen people.

			MAID
	The Englishman's still there, Master
	Roderick.  He's there in the parlor.
	Go in, and don't let 'im browbeat
	you, Master Roderick.

INT.  DUGAN MANOR HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Roderick enters and takes his place at the bottom of the
big table; the butler speedily brings him a cover.

			UNCLE
	Hello, Roddy, my boy!  Up and well?
	That's right.

			AUNT
	He'd better be home with his mother.

			UNCLE
	Don't mind her.  It's the cold goose
	she ate for breakfast -- didn't
	agree with her.  Take a glass of
	spirits, Mrs. Dugan, to Roderick's
	health.

It is evident that his uncle doesn't know of what
happened, but Michael, who is at dinner too, and Harry,
and almost all the girls, look exceedingly black and the
captain foolish; and Miss Dorothy, who is again by his
side, ready to cry.  Captain Grogan sits smiling, and
Roderick looks on as cold as stone.

His uncle is in high good-humor.

			UNCLE
	Dorothy, divide that merry thought
	with the captain!  See who'll be
	married first.  Jack Best, my dear
	boy, never mind a clean glass for
	the claret, we're short of crystal
	at Castle Dugan; take Dorothy's and
	the wine will taste none the worse.
	Mrs. Dugan and ladies, if you
	please; this is a sort of toast that
	is drunk a great deal too seldom in
	my family, and you'll please to
	receive it with all the honors.
	Here's to Captain and Mrs. John
	Best, and long life to them.  Kiss
	her, Jack, you rogue; for faith,
	you've got a treasure.

			RODERICK
		   (spring up)
	His already?!

			HARRY
	Hold your tongue, you fool -- hold
	your tongue!

			RODERICK
		   (shouting)
	He has already been slapped in the
	face this morning, Captain John
	Best; he's already been called a
	coward, Captain John Best; and this
	is the way I'll drink his health.
	Here's your health, Captain John
	Best.

Roderick flings a glass of claret into his face.  The next
moment, he is under the table, tripped up by Harry, who
hits him a violent cuff on the head; as he goes down, he
hardly has time to hear the general screaming and
scurrying that is taking place above him, being so fully
occupied with kicks, and thumps and curses, with which
Harry is belaboring him.

			HARRY
	You fool!  You great blundering
	marplot -- you silly beggarly
	brat --
		   (a thump at each)
	Hold your tongue!

When Roderick gets up from under the table, the ladies are
all gone; but he has the satisfaction of seeing the
captain's nose is bleeding, as his is -- Best is cut
across the bridge, and his beauty spoiled forever.

			UNCLE
	In Heaven's name, what does all the
	row mean?  Is the boy in fever
	again?

			HARRY
		   (turning to his
		    father)
	The fact is, sir, that the young
	monkey has fallen in love with
	Dorothy, and finding her and the
	captain mighty sweet in the garden
	today, he was for murdering Jack
	Best.

			CAPTAIN BEST
		   (bristling up)
	And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan,
	I've been insulted grossly in this
	house.  I ain't at all satisfied
	with these here ways of going on.
	I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man
	of property; and I -- I --

			HARRY
	If you're insulted, and not
	satisfied, remember there's two of
	us, Best.

On which, the captain falls to washing his nose in water,
and answering never a word.

			RODERICK
		   (in dignified tone)
	Mr. Best may also have satisfaction
	any time he pleases, by calling on
	Roderick James, Esquire, of
	Jamesville.

His uncle bursts out laughing, and in this laugh, Captain
Grogan joins.

			RODERICK
	Captain Grogan, I beg you to
	understand that, for my cousin
	Harry, who has been my best friend
	through life, I could put up with
	rough treatment from him; yet, even
	that sort of treatment I will bear
	from him no longer; and any other
	person who ventures on the like will
	not like the cost.  Mr. Best knows
	that fact very well; and, if he's
	man, he'll know where to find me.

			UNCLE
	It is getting late, and your mother
	will be anxious about you.  One of
	you had better go home with him.
		   (turning to his sons)
	Or the lad may be playing more
	pranks.

			HARRY
	Both of us ride home with Best here.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	I'm not afraid of highwaymen.  My
	man is armed, and so am I.

			HARRY
	You know the use of arms very well,
	Best, and no one can doubt your
	courage; but Michael and I will see
	you home for all that.

			UNCLE
	Why, you'll not be home till
	morning, boys.  Kilwangan's a good
	ten miles from here.

			HARRY
	We'll sleep in Best's quarters.
	We're going to stop a week there.
	And, in another week, my boy.

And here, Harry whispers something in the Captain's ear.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	I'll go home with the boy.

EXT.  ROAD - LATE DAY

Grogan walks with Roderick.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	A pretty day's work of it you have
	made, Master Roderick.  Knowing your
	uncle to be distressed for money,
	and try and break off a match which
	will bring fifteen hundred a-year
	into the family?  Best has promised
	to pay off the four thousand pounds
	which is bothering your uncle so.
	He takes a girl without a penny -- a
	girl that has been flinging herself
	at the head of every man in these
	parts these ten years past, and
	missing them all, and a boy who
	ought to be attached to your uncle
	as to your father.

			RODERICK
	And so I am.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	And this is the return you make for
	his kindness!  Didn't he harbor you
	in his house when your father died,
	and hasn't he given you and your
	mother, rent-free, your fine house
	of Jamesville yonder?

			RODERICK
	Mark this, come what will of it, I
	swear I will fight the man who
	pretends to the hand of Dorothy
	Dugan.  I'll follow him if it's into
	the church, and meet him there.
	I'll have his blood, or he shall
	have mine.  Will you take my message
	to him, and arrange the meeting?

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Well, if it must be, it must.  For a
	young fellow, you are the most
	bloodthirsty I ever saw.  No
	officer, bearing His Majesty's
	commission, can receive a glass of
	wine on his nose, without resenting
	it -- fight you must, and Best is a
	huge, strong fellow.

			RODERICK
	He'll give the better mark.  I am
	not afraid of him.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	In faith, I believe you are not; for
	a lad I never saw more game in my
	life.  Give me a kiss, my dear boy.
	You're after my own soul.  As long
	as Jack Grogan lives, you shall
	never want a friend or a second.

They embrace.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Poor fellow!  He was shot six months
	afterwards, at Minden, and I lost
	thereby a kind friend.  But we don't
	know what is in store for us, and
	that's a blessing.

EXT.  HOUSE - LATE DAY

Mother greeting Roderick and Captain Grogan.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	In spite of my precautions to
	secrecy, I half-suspected that my
	mother knew all from the manner in
	which she embraced me on my arrival,
	and received our guest, Captain
	Grogan.

His mother looks a little anxious and flushed and, every
now and then, gazes very hard into the Captain's face.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	But she would not say a word about
	the quarrel, for she had a noble
	spirit, and would as lief have seen
	any one of her kindred hanged as
	shirking from the field of honor.

INT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY

Roderick waking up.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I never slept sounder in my life,
	though I woke a little earlier than
	usual, and you may be sure my first
	thought was of the event of the day,
	for which I was fully prepared.

Roderick at table with paper and ink.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	And now I sat down and wrote a
	couple of letters; they might be the
	last, thought I, that I should ever
	write in my life.

See him write:  "Dearest Mother."

INT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Then I went down to breakfast, where
	my mother was waiting for me, you
	may be sure.  We did not say a
	single word about what was taking
	place.

Roderick eats his breakfast with a good appetite; but in
helping himself to salt, spills it, on which his mother
starts up with a scream.

			MOTHER
	Thank God, it's fallen towards me!

And then, her heart being too full, she leaves the room.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Ah!  They have their faults, those
	mothers; but are there any other
	women like them?

There is an elegant, silver-mounted sword that hangs on
the mantelpiece under the picture of Roderick's late
father.

A pair of pistols hang on each side of the picture.

Roderick takes down the sword and pistols, which are
bright and well-oiled, and collects flints, balls and
gunpowder.

EXT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Captain Grogan and Orderly arrive.

			RODERICK
	Have you taken my message to him?

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	The meeting is arranged.  Captain
	Best is waiting for you now.

			RODERICK
	My mare is saddled and ready; who's
	the captain's second?

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Your cousins go out with him.

Roderick and Grogan, and the Orderly ride off.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I didn't take leave of Mrs. James.
	The curtains of her bedroom-windows
	were down, and they didn't move as
	we mounted and trotted off.

EXT.  COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

They ride their horses at a leisurely pace.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	That's a very handsome sword you
	have there.

			RODERICK
	It was with this sword that my late
	father, Harry James, God rest his
	soul, met Sir Huddelstone
	Fuddelstone, the Hampshire baronet,
	and was fatally run through the
	neck.  He was quite in the wrong,
	having insulted Lady Fuddelstone,
	when in liquor, at the Brentford
	Assembly.  But, like a gentleman, he
	scorned to apologize.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	And now you risk the same fate.  If
	you are killed, your mother is all
	alone in the world.

			RODERICK
	I am Harry James' son, and will act
	as becomes my name and quality.

EXT.  FOREST CLEARING - DAY

Harry, Michael and the Captain are already there.  Best,
flaming in red regimentals, a big a monster as ever led a
grenadier company.  The party are laughing together.

			RODERICK
		   (to Captain Grogan)
	I hope to spoil this sport, and
	trust to see this sword of mine in
	that big bully's body.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Oh, it's with pistols we fight.  You
	are no match for Best with the
	sword.

			RODERICK
	I'll match any man with the sword.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	But swords are today impossible;
	Captain Best is -- is lame.  He
	knocked his knee against the
	swinging park gate last night, as he
	was riding home, and can scarce move
	it now.

			RODERICK
	Not against Castle Dugan gate, that
	has been off the hinges these ten
	years.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	It must have been some other gate.

They alight from their horses, and join and salute the
other gentlemen.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	I have just explained to Mister
	James that Captain Best is lame, and
	that swords are impossible.

			HARRY
	Oh, yes!  Dead lame.

Harry comes up to shake Roderick by the hand, while
Captain Best takes off his hat, and turns extremely red.

			HARRY
	And very lucky for you, Roderick, my
	boy.  You were a dead man else, for
	he is a devil of a fellow -- isn't
	he, Grogan?

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	A regular Turk.  I never yet knew
	the man who stood to Captain Best.

			HARRY
	Hang the business.  I hate it.  I'm
	ashamed of it.  Say you're sorry,
	Roderick.  You can easily say that.

			CAPTAIN BEST
	If the young feller will go to
	Dublin, as proposed...

			RODERICK
	I'm not sorry -- I'll not apologize
	-- and I'll as soon go to Dublin as
	to hell!

Grogan takes him aside.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is
	silly business.  The girl will marry
	Best, mark my words; and as sure as
	she does, you'll forget her.  You
	are but a boy.  Best is willing to
	consider you as such.  Dublin's a
	fine place, and if you have a mind
	to take a ride thither and see the
	town for a month, here are twenty
	guineas at your service.  Make Best
	an apology, and be off.

			RODERICK
	A man of honor dies, but never
	apologizes.  I'll see the captain
	hanged before I apologize.

			HARRY
		   (with a laugh to
		    Grogan)
	There's nothing else for it.  Take
	your ground, Grogan -- twelve paces,
	I suppose?

			CAPTAIN BEST
		   (in a big voice)
	Ten, sir, and make them short ones,
	do you hear, Captain Grogan?

			HARRY
	Don't bully, Mr. Best.  Here are the
	pistols.
		   (with some emotion
		    to Roderick)
	God bless you, my boy; and when I
	count three, fire.

			RODERICK
	This is not one of my pistols.

			HARRY
	They are all right, never fear.
	It's one of mine.  Yours will serve,
	if they are needed, for the next
	round.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Roderick, fire at his neck -- hit
	him there under the gorget; see how
	the fool shows himself open.

Michael, who has not spoken a word, Harry, and the Captain
retire to one side, and Harry gives the signal.

It is slowly given, and Roderick has the leisure to cover
his man well.

Captain Best changes color and trembles as the numbers are
given.

At "three" both pistols go off.  Best gives a most
horrible groan, staggers backwards and falls.

			THE SECONDS
		   (crying out)
	He's down!  He's down!

Running towards him, Harry lifts him up -- Michael takes
his head.

			MICHAEL
	He's hit here, in the neck.

Laying open his coat, blood is seen gurgling from under
his gorget.

			HARRY
	How is it with you?

The unfortunate man does not answer, but when the support
of Harry's arm is withdrawn from his back, groans once
more and falls backwards.

			MICHAEL
		   (with a scowl)
	The young fellow has begun well.
	You had better ride off, young sir,
	before the police are up.  They had
	wind of the business before we left
	Kilwangan.

			RODERICK
	Is he quite dead?

			MICHAEL
	Quite dead.

			CAPTAIN GROGAN
	Then the world's rid of a coward.
	It's all over with him, Roddy -- he
	doesn't stir.

He gives the huge prostrate body a scornful kick with his
foot.

			HARRY
	We are not cowards, Grogan, whatever
	he was!  Let's get the boy off as
	quick as we may.  Your man shall go
	for a cart, and take away the body
	of this unhappy gentleman.  This has
	been a sad day's work for our
	family, Roderick James, and you have
	robbed us of fifteen-hundred a-year.

			RODERICK
	It was Dorothy did it.

Roderick takes the ribbons she gave him out of his
waistcoat, and the letter, and flings them down on the
body of Captain Best.

			RODERICK
	There!  Take her those ribbons.
	She'll know what they mean; that's
	all that's left of her of two lovers
	she had and ruined.

			MICHAEL
	And now, in Heaven's name, get the
	youngster out of the way.

			HARRY
	I'll go with you.

They mount up and gallop off.

EXT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Upon seeing Roderick and Harry ride up, his mother, who
has been waiting outside, rushes to her son with wild
screams of joy.  He dismounts, and she kisses and embraces
him.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I need not tell you how great was my
	mother's pride and exultation when
	she heard from Harry's lips the
	account of my behavior at the duel.

INT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - PARLOR - DAY

Still much excitement and hustle and bustle.

			HARRY
	The boy must go into hiding, for a
	short time anyway.  Dublin is the
	best place for him to go, and there
	wait until matters are blown over.

			MOTHER
	Dublin?  But the poor lad has never
	been away from home.  He will be as
	safe here as in Dublin.

			HARRY
	I wish that were true, Auntie dear,
	but I'm afraid the bailiffs may
	already be on their way from
	Kilwangan.

INT.  RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY

His mother is rushing about and packing a valise.  Harry
sits on the bed.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Harry persisted in the necessity of
	instant departure, in which
	argument, as I was anxious to see
	the world, I must confess, I sided
	with him; and my mother was brought
	to see that, in our small house, in
	the midst of a village, escape would
	be impossible, and capture would be
	impossible to avoid.

INT.  MOTHER'S BEDROOM - DAY

His mother takes out a stocking from her escritoire, and
gives Roderick twenty golden guineas.

			MOTHER
		   (gravely)
	Roderick, my darling, my wild boy, I
	have forebodings that our separation
	is to be a long one.  I spent most
	of all night consulting the cards
	regarding your fate in the duel, and
	all signs betoke a separation.  Here
	is twenty guineas -- all that I have
	in the world -- and I want you to
	keep your father's sword and
	pistols, which you have known to use
	so like a man.

EXT.  MOTHER'S HOUSE - DAY

Roderick's departure.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	She hurried my departure now, though
	her heart, I know, was full, and
	almost in half-an-hour from my
	arrival at home, I was once more on
	the road again, with the wide world,
	as it were, before me.

Roderick waves.  His mother cries.

EXT.  HIGH ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	No lad of seventeen is very sad who
	has liberty for the first time, and
	twenty guineas in his pocket; and I
	rode away, thinking, I confess, not
	so much of the kind of mother left
	alone, and of the home behind me, as
	of tomorrow, and all the wonders it
	would bring.

Roderick happily riding down the road.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I had no doubts of the future;
	thinking that a man of my person,
	parts, and courage, could make his
	way anywhere.  So I rode on, singing
	to myself, or chatting with the
	passersby; and all the girls along
	the road said, "God save me, for a
	clever gentleman."

Farm girls in the fields flirting with him.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	As for thoughts of Dorothy Dugan,
	there seemed to be a gap of a half-
	a-score of years.

EXT.  ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY

A well-armed gentleman dressed in green, and a gold cord,
with a patch on his eye, and riding a powerful mare, puts
his horse alongside.

			ARMED GENTLEMAN
	Good day to you, young sir.

			RODERICK
	Good morning.

			ARMED GENTLEMAN
	Where are you bound for?

			RODERICK
		   (after a long look at
		    his companion)
	That is none of your business.

			ARMED GENTLEMAN
	Is your mother not afraid on account
	of the highwayman to let one so
	young as you travel?

			RODERICK
		   (pulling out a
		    pistol)
	Not at all, sir.  I have a pair of
	good pistols that have already done
	execution, and are ready to do it
	again.

At this, a pock-marked man coming up, the well-armed
gentleman spurs into his bay mare, and leaves Roderick.

EXT.  ROAD TO DUBLIN - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	A little later on, as I rode towards
	Kilcullen, I saw a crowd of peasant
	people assembled round a one-horse
	chair, and my friend in green, as I
	thought, making off half-a-mile up
	the hill.

A footman howls, at the top of his voice.

			FOOTMAN
	Stop thief!

But the country fellows only laugh at his distress, and
make all sorts of jokes at the adventure which had just
befallen.

			COUNTRY FELLOW #1
	Sure, you might have kept him off
	with your blunderbush!

			COUNTRY FELLOW #2
	O the coward!  To let the Captain
	bate you, and he only one eye!

			COUNTRY FELLOW #3
	The next time my lady travels, she'd
	better leave you at home!

			RODERICK
	What is this noise, fellows?

Roderick rides up amongst them, and seeing the lady in the
carriage, very pale and frightened, gives a slash of his
whip, and bids the red-shanked ruffians keep off.

Pulling off his hat, and bringing his mare up in a prance
to the chair-window.

			RODERICK
	What has happened, madam, to annoy
	your ladyship?

			MRS. O'REILLY
	Oh, I am grateful to you, sir.  I am
	the wife of Captain O'Reilly
	hastening to join him at Dublin.  My
	chair was stopped by a highwayman;
	this great oaf of a servant-man fell
	down on his knees, armed as he was,
	and though there were thirty people
	in the next field, working, when the
	ruffian attacked, not one of them
	would help but, on the contrary,
	wished him "good luck."

			COUNTRY FELLOW #1
	Sure, he's the friend of the poor,
	and good luck to him.

			COUNTRY FELLOW #2
	Was it any business of ours?

			RODERICK
		   (shouting)
	Be off to your work, you pack of
	rascals, or you will have a good
	taste of my thong.
		   (to Mrs. O'Reilly)
	Have you lost much?

			MRS. O'REILLY
	Everything -- my purse, containing
	upwards of a hundred guineas, my
	jewels, my snuff-boxes, watches.
	And all because this blundering
	coward fell to his knees...

			FOOTMAN
	Be fair, ma'am, them wasn't so much.
	Didn't he return you the thirteen
	pence in copper, and the watch,
	saying it was only pinchbeck?

			MRS. O'REILLY
	Don't be insolent, or I'll report
	you to the Captain.

			FOOTMAN
	Sorry, ma'am.

He shuffles a few steps away and frowns in the direction
that the Captain has vanished.

			MRS. O'REILLY
	That fool didn't know what was the
	meaning of a hundred-pound bill,
	which was in the pocket-book that
	the fellow took from me.

			RODERICK
	I am riding to Dublin myself, and if
	your ladyship will allow me the
	honor of riding with you, I shall do
	my best to protect you from further
	mishap.

			MRS. O'REILLY
	But I shouldn't like to put you to
	such trouble, Mister...?

			RODERICK
	O'Higgins... Mohawk O'Higgins.

EXT.  ROADSIDE INN - DAY

They stop at the inn.

			RODERICK
		   (very gallantly)
	As you have been robbed of your
	purse, may I have permission to lend
	your ladyship a couple of pieces to
	pay any expenses which you might
	incur before reaching your home?

			MRS. O'REILLY
		   (smiling)
	That's very kind of you, Mr.
	O'Higgins.

He gives her two gold pieces.

INT.  INN - DAY

Roderick and Mrs. O'Reilly finishing their meal.

We will hear dialogue underneath Roderick's voice over.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	How different was her lively rattle
	to the vulgar wenches at Kilwangan
	assemblies.  In every sentence, she
	mentioned a lord or a person of
	quality.  To the lady's question
	about my birth and parentage, I
	replied that I was a young gentleman
	of large fortune, that I was going
	to Dublin for my studies, and that
	my mother allowed me five hundred
	per annum.

			MRS. O'REILLY
	You must be very cautious with
	regard to the company you should
	meet in Dublin, where rogues and
	adventurers of all countries abound.
	I hope you will do me the honor of
	accepting lodgings in my own house,
	where Captain O'Reilly will welcome
	with delight, my gallant young
	preserver.

Paying the bill.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Perhaps had I been a little older in
	the world's experience, I should
	have begun to see that Madame
	O'Reilly was not the person of
	fashion she pretended to be; but, as
	it was, I took all her stories for
	truth, and, when the landlord
	brought the bill for dinner, paid it
	with the air of a lord.  Indeed, she
	made no motion to produce the two
	pieces I had lent her.

EXT.  DUBLIN - STREET - NIGHT

They ride by.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	And so we rode on slowly towards
	Dublin, into which city we made our
	entrance at nightfall.  The rattle
	and splendor of the coaches, the
	flare of the linkboys, the number
	and magnificence of the houses,
	struck me with the greatest wonder;
	though I was careful to disguise
	this feeling.

EXT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - DUBLIN - NIGHT

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	We stopped at length at a house of
	rather mean appearance, and were let
	into a passage which had a great
	smell of supper and punch.

INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Captain O'Reilly, a stout red-faced man, without a
periwig, and in a rather tattered nightgown and cap.
Roderick and Mrs. O'Reilly.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Mr. O'Higgins, I cannot say how
	grateful I am for your timely
	assistance to my wife.

			RODERICK
	I am only sorry that I was unable to
	prevent the villain from carrying
	off all her ladyship's money and
	pearls.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Mr. O'Higgins, we are in your debt,
	and rest assured, sir, you have
	friends in this house whenever you
	are in Dublin.
		   (pours a glass)
	Mister O'Higgins, I wonder if I know
	your good father?

			RODERICK
	Which O'Higgins do you know?  For I
	have never heard your name mentioned
	in my family.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Oh, I am thinking of the O'Higgins
	of Redmondstown.  General O'Higgins
	was a close friend of my wife's dear
	father, Colonel Granby Somerset.

			RODERICK
	Ah -- I see.  No, I'm afraid mine
	are the O'Higgins of Watertown.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	I have heard of them.

There are relics of some mutton-chops and onions on a
cracked dish before them.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	My love, I wish I had known of your
	coming, for Bob Moriaty and I just
	finished the most delicious venison
	pasty, which His Grace the Lord
	Lieutenant, sent us, with a flash of
	sillery from his own cellar.  You
	know the wine, my dear?  But as
	bygones are bygones, and no help for
	them, what say ye to a fine lobster
	and a bottle of as good claret as
	any in Ireland?  Betty, clear these
	things from the table, and make the
	mistress and our young friend
	welcome to our home.

Captain O'Reilly searches his pockets for some money to
give to Betty.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	I'm sorry, Mr. O'Higgins, but I
	don't seem to have any small change.
	May I borrow a ten-penny piece to
	give to the girl?

			MRS. O'REILLY
	I have some money, my dear.  Here,
	Betty, go to the fishmonger and
	bring back our supper, and mind you
	get the right change.

She takes out one of the golden guineas Roderick gave to
her.

INT.  DINNING ROOM - LATER

They are eating.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Our supper was seasoned, if not by
	any great elegance, at least by a
	plentiful store of anecdotes,
	concerning the highest personages of
	the city, with whom, according to
	himself, the captain lived on terms
	of the utmost intimacy.  Not to be
	behind hand with him, I spoke of my
	own estates and property as if I was
	as rich as a duke.

INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

The couple wishing Roderick goodnight.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Had I been an English lad, the
	appearance of the chamber I occupied
	might, indeed, have aroused
	instantly my suspicion and distrust.
	But we are not particular in Ireland
	on the score of neatness, hence the
	disorder of my bed-chamber did not
	strike me so much.

Broken door.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Was there a lock to the door, or a
	hasp to fasten it to?

Dress lying over bed.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Though my counterpane was evidently
	a greased brocade dress of Mrs.
	O'Reilly.

Cracked mirror.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	And my cracked toilet-glass not much
	bigger than a half-crown, yet I was
	used to these sort of ways in Irish
	houses, and still thought myself to
	be in that of a man of fashion.

Drawers, full of junk.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	There was no lock to the drawers,
	which, when they did open, were full
	of my hostess' rouge-pots, shoes,
	stays, and rags.

INT.  BEDROOM - O'REILLY HOUSE - NIGHT

In the middle of the night, Mrs. O'Reilly comes to
Roderick's room on a flimsy pretext, and in the course of
events, he has his first woman.

INT.  COACH - DAY

Roderick, Captain and Mrs. O'Reilly.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	I needn't ask whether you had a
	comfortable bed.  Young Fred
	Pimpleton slept in it for seven
	months, during which he did me the
	honor to stay with me, and if he was
	satisfied, I don't know who else
	wouldn't be.

EXT.  PROMENADE - PHOENIX PARK - DAY

Roderick, Captain and Mrs. O'Reilly, their friends.
Various cuts.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	After breakfast, we drove out to
	Phoenix Park, where numbers of the
	young gentry were known to Mrs.
	O'Reilly, to all of whom she
	presented me in such a complimentary
	way that, before half an hour, I had
	got to be considered as a gentleman
	of great expectations and large
	property.

INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - NIGHT

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I had little notion then that I had
	got amongst a set of impostors --
	that Captain O'Reilly was only an
	adventurer, and his lady a person of
	no credit.  The fact was, a young
	man could hardly have fallen into
	worse hands than those in which I
	now found myself.

An evening of gambling.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Their friends were always welcome on
	payment of a certain moderate sum
	for their dinner after which, you
	may be sure, that cards were not
	wanting, and that the company who
	played did not play for love merely.

Various cuts of the characters present.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	What could happen to a man but
	misfortune from associating with
	such company?  And in a very, very
	short time I became their prey.

Roderick loses two hundred guineas to Captain O'Reilly in
a single hand.

We see Captain O'Reilly cheat, but Roderick does not.

He pays him the 18 gold guineas, remaining from the sum
his mother gave him.

			RODERICK
	I shall have to write out a note for
	the rest of it, Captain O'Reilly.

EXT.  STREET - OUTSIDE O'REILLY HOUSE - DAWN

Roderick exits to the street.  The sound of the gambling
can still be heard in the street.  He is soon joined by
Councillor Mulligan.

			COUNCILLOR MULLIGAN
	Master Roderick, you appear a young
	fellow of birth and fortune; let me
	whisper in your ear that you have
	fallen into very bad hands -- it's a
	regular gang of swindlers; and a
	gentleman of your rank and quality
	should never be seen in such
	company.  The captain has been a
	gentleman's gentleman, and his lady
	of no higher rank.  Go home, pack
	your valise, pay the little trifle
	you owe me, mount your mare, and
	ride back again to your parents --
	it's the very best thing you can do.

Roderick does not reply, and walks slowly away from him
down the street.

INT.  O'REILLY HOUSE - RODERICK'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Roderick enters.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Into a pretty nest of villains,
	indeed, was I plunged!  When I
	returned to my bed-chamber, a few
	hours later, it seemed as if all my
	misfortunes were to break on me at
	once.

Valise open, wardrobe lying on the ground, and Roderick's
keys in the possession of O'Reilly and his wife.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Whom have I been harboring in my
	house?  Who are you, sirrah?

			RODERICK
	Sirrah!  Sirrah, I am as good a
	gentleman as any in Ireland!

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	You're an impostor, young man, a
	schemer, a deceiver!

			RODERICK
	Repeat the words again, and I run
	you through the body.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Tut, tut!  I can play at fencing as
	well as you, Mr. Roderick James.
	Ah!  You change color, do you?  Your
	secret is known, is it?  You come
	like a viper into the bosom of
	innocent families; you represent
	yourself as the heir to my friends
	the O'Higgins of Castle O'Higgins; I
	introduce you to the nobility and
	gentry of this methropolis; I take
	you to my tradesmen, who give you
	credit.  I accept your note for near
	two hundred pounds, and what do I
	find?  A fraud.

He holds up the name, Roderick James, printed on the
linen.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
	Not Master O'Higgins of Watertown,
	but Roderick James of the devil only
	knows where...

Captain O'Reilly gathers up the linen clothes, silver
toilet articles, and the rest of Roderick's gear.

			RODERICK
	Hark ye, Mr. O'Reilly, I will tell
	you why I was obliged to alter my
	name, which is James and the best
	name in Ireland.  I changed it, sir,
	because, on the day before I came to
	Dublin, I killed a man in deadly
	combat -- an Englishman, sir, and a
	Captain in His Majesty's service;
	and if you offer to let or hinder me
	in the slightest way, the same arm
	which destroyed him is ready to
	punish you.

So saying, Roderick draws his sword like lightning, and
giving a "ha, ha!" and a stamp with his foot, lunges it
within an inch of O'Reilly's heart, who starts back and
turns deadly pale, while his wife, with a scream, flings
herself between them.

			MRS. O'REILLY
	Dearest Roderick -- be pacified.
	O'Reilly, you don't want the poor
	child's blood.  Let him escape -- in
	Heaven's name, let him go.

			CAPTAIN O'REILLY
		   (sulkily)
	He may go hang for me, and he's
	better be off quickly, for I shall
	go to the magistrate if I see him
	again.

O'Reilly exits.  His wife sits down on the bed and begins
to cry.

EXT.  DUBLIN STREET - DAY

Roderick riding down the street, with his valise.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Where was now a home for the
	descendant of the James?  I was
	expelled from Dublin by a
	persecution occasioned, I must
	confess, by my own imprudence.  I
	had no time to wait and choose.  No
	place of refuge to fly to.

INT.  ALE HOUSE - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	There was a score of recruiting
	parties in the town beating up for
	men to join our gallant armies in
	America and Germany.

Roderick approaches a Captain and a Sergeant, who quickly
make him welcome.

			RODERICK
	I will tell you frankly, sir.  I am
	a young gentleman in difficulties; I
	have killed an officer in a duel,
	and I am anxious to get out of the
	country.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	But I needn't have troubled myself
	with any explanations; King George
	was in too much want of men to heed
	from whence they came -- and a
	fellow of my inches was always
	welcome.  Indeed, I could not have
	chosen my time better.  A transport
	was lying at Dunleary, waiting for a
	wind.

EXT.  BRITISH WARSHIP AT SEA - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	I never had a taste for any thing
	but genteel company, and hate all
	descriptions of low life.  Hence my
	account of the society in which I at
	present found myself must of
	necessity be short.  The
	reminiscences of the horrid black-
	hole of a place in which we soldiers
	were confined, of the wretched
	creatures with whom I was now forced
	to keep company, of the plowmen,
	poachers, pickpockets, who had taken
	refuge from poverty, or the law, as,
	in truth, I had done myself, is
	enough to make me ashamed even now.

Roderick sits very disconsolately over a platter of rancid
bacon and moldy biscuit, which is served to him at mess.
When it comes to his turn to be helped to drink, he is
served, like the rest, with dirty tin noggin, containing
somewhat more than half a pint of rum and water.  The
beaker is so greasy and filthy that he cannot help turning
round to the messman and saying:

			RODERICK
	Fellow, get me a glass!

At which, all the wretches round him burst into a roar of
laughter, the very loudest among them being Mr. Toole, a
red-haired monster of a man.

			MR. TOOLE
	Get the gentleman a towel for his
	hands, and serve him a basin of
	turtle-soup.

Roars the monster, who is sitting, or rather squatting, on
the deck opposite him, and as he speaks, he suddenly
seizes Roderick's beaker of grog and empties it in midst
of another burst of applause.

			LINK-BOY
		   (whispers)
	If you want to vex him, ask him
	about his wife, the washerwoman, who
	bates him.

			RODERICK
	Is it a towel of your wife's
	washing, Mr. Toole?  I'm told she
	wiped your face often with one.

			LINK-BOY
		   (whispers)
	Ask him why he wouldn't see her
	yesterday, when she came to the
	ship.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	And so I put to him some other
	foolish jokes about soapsuds, hen-
	pecking, and flat-irons, which set
	the man into a fury, and succeeded
	in raising a quarrel between us.

Roderick and Toole fight with cudgels.  Roderick gives him
a thump across his head which lays him lifeless on the
floor.

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	This victory over the cock of the
	vile dunghill obtained me respect
	among the wretches among whom I
	formed part.

EXT.  MILITARY DRILL FIELD - CUXHAVEN - DAY

			RODERICK (V.O.)
	Our passage was very favorable, and
	in two days we landed at Cuxhaven,
	and before I had been a month in the
	Electorate, I was transported into a
	tall and proper young soldier, and,
	having a natural aptitude for
	military exercise, was soon as
	accomplished at the drill as the
	oldest sergeant in the regiment.